Good to see you again.
When running large deep models,
you'll often run out of memory as
each layer keeps allocating
it for a long time.
I'll show you how this
can be solved using
reversible layers, let's dive in.
The transformer
network precedes by
repeatedly adding residuals
to the hidden states.
To run it in reverse,
you can subtract the residuals
in the opposite order,
starting with the
outputs of the model.
But in order to save memory
otherwise used to
store the residuals,
you need to be able to
recompute them quickly instead,
and this is where reversible
residual connections come in.
The key idea is that you start
with two copies of
the model inputs,
then at each layer you
only update one of them.
The activations that
you don't update
will be the ones used to
compute the residuals,
where this configuration you
can now run the
network in reverse.
Layer 1 is attention and
layer 2 is feedforward.
The activations in the
model are now twice as big,
but you don't have to worry
about caching for
the backwards pass.
The standard
transformer equations
give Y_a is equal to x
plus attention of X,
and Y_b is equal to Y_a
plus feedforward of Y_a.
This is the normal
residual connection.
In the reversible case,
you will have Y_1 equals
x_1 plus attention of x_2,
and Y_2 equals x_2 plus
feedforward of Y_1.
Then to save the memory,
you can reconstruct the inputs
x_1 and x_2 as follows,
x_1 equals Y_1 minus
attention of x_2
and x_2 equals Y_2 minus
feedforward of Y_1.
Feel free to pause here for
a moment to make sure you
understand what's happening.
But basically, I'm
computing using one side of
the network plus feedforward
of the other side to compute Y_2.
Similarly, one side of
the network plus attention
of the other side to compute Y_1.
By doing it this way,
you can use the last row formulas
to recompute x_1 and x_2.
Let me show you how these
new formulas fits into
this reversible
layers illustration
I've already shown you.
To do so, I'm going to rotate
the diagram onto its side,
something like this,
so that information
is flowing from left to
right in a forward pass.
Restating the equations
I showed you earlier,
the first step is to calculate
Y_1 equals x_1 plus
the attention of x_2.
Then after you've done this,
the second step is to
calculate Y_2 with
the second formula,
which has a dependency on Y_1,
and requires a few extra parts in
the illustration that weren't
used in the first step,
so Y_2 equals x_2 plus
feedforward of Y_1 from the
first step, and that's it.
But notice that Y_1 dependency,
the key takeaway is to
recognize the two parts to
the operation and how the
second builds on the first.
First you find Y_1,
then you use that to find Y_2.
That's a forward pass for
irreversible residual block.
It's combined standard attention
and feedforward residual layers
from a regular transformer
into a single reversible
residual block,
and there is nothing
to be saved in
memory except the Y_1 and
Y_2 of the output layer instead
of activations for
every individual layer.
Memory saved. Now,
I'll show you how to
recompute x_1 and x_2
from Y_1 and Y_2 for
a backward pass.
First thing to notice is that I'm
going to calculate
x_2 before x_1,
the reason for which
I'll explain soon.
First, I'll reverse some of
the arrows in the illustration.
The reverse direction is to
indicate the information
is flowing backwards.
Notice I also changed
the plus signs in
the orange circles
to be minuses to indicate
subtraction will now
be taking place.
The first step is
to calculate x_2
equals Y_2 minus
feedforward of Y_1,
and great work, you
just calculated
an input x_2 from the two
outputs of the forward pass.
The second step is
to calculate x_1.
The formula for x_1 has
a dependency on x_2 that
you just calculated,
similar to the Y_2 dependency on
Y_1 in the forward
pass formulas above,
so x_1 equals Y_1
minus the attention of x_2
that you already calculated
in the first step.
You now know how to compute
a backward pass for
a residual layer and
a transformer model
without the need for
saving memory hungry activations
in the forward pass.
I showed you how to do this
using reversible residual blocks.
You'll be seeing this
again in the assignment.
Comparing performance of
regular and reversible
transformers
on machine translation,
you find roughly the
same BLEU scores,
and language modeling
produces similar results.
In fact, reversibility is
a very general technique,
this can be applied anywhere
you use a transformer model.
While the comparison
shown here suggests
reversing produces
slight out-performance,
it's really because there's
been some hyperparameter tuning
in the three years since
the original transformer
paper was published.
You now understand
reversible layers and
how they solved the memory
issue during training.
Next, I'll put them together
with the LSH attention,
this will give us a
variant of transformer
that confinement on
very long sequences.
Let's go to the next video.